### Tasks from lecture on 01.12

### Reflection on the lecture

### Reflection on the lab
As usually, we had a brief 15 minute meeting in the beginning of the lab, where we gave an overview of what both teams have been doing and how everything is going. It seems to me that everything is going well enough. We might have to speed up our work a little bit, but I think we'll manage. Lauri and Einar seem to have the most knowledge about everything so whenever there is a question, they'll usually know the answer to it.<br>
The teamwork in the frontend side is still not great as most of the time it's just me and Rasul working. At times this gets a bit frustrating because I also have my scrum master duties to fill. Luckily Rasul works very efficiently and quickly, so in the end it works out fine: I figure out what elements the pages must have and create some wireframe-like thingies and he uses them to develop the pages in code. Today he also spent 30 minutes explaining his css and html code to me and by the end of the day I managed to develop a few pages myself. I know that css and html aren't actually that hard, but since I didn't understand much at the beginning, I'm really proud of myself for understanding it so much better now. And thank you, Rasul, for explaining stuff to me!<br>
This have realized that this project has been a great learning opportunity for me in many aspects. I've seen improvement in both my IT and people skills. As a scrum master I must try to lead the meetings, make sure the communication within the team is efficient, remind people to track their time and close the issues for tasks that are done etc. All this requires initiating conversations and bugging people to do things, which is something I'm actually quite scared to do. It's really hard for me to go up to someone and say "Hey, you should actually be tracking your time" or "Hey, have you finished the task you were supposed to finish". But it's a necessary skill and I'm glad I'm learning it. After the first week I regretter having volunteered as the scrum master, but now I'm happy that I did. I don't know if I'm very good at it (only my teammates can say that) but I'm definitely not terrible so that's something! :D And whenever the conversation stops during a meeting and I'm not completely sure how to continue or what to say next, Lauri usually takes the lead and keeps things moving. He's also always willing to think along when I have a question or an idea about the project. Thanks for that, Lauri! I kind of feel like I should dedicate an entire paragraph to thanking my awesome teammates at some point! 

